# URL-shortener

 Before actually starting to write the code for writing this small application, we 
would first need to define a set of requirements that we would want to stick to so 
that we can understand the end goal of what we are trying to build out here and not 
overcomplicate the application too much.
 Here is the list of requirements that one can think of when building a URL parameter:
 •	When a user passes a long URL, the server application will create a short 
hash that will be used to reference the long URL being passed to the user.
 •	The short hash and the long URL would need to be stored in some form of 
database, but to keep things simple in this case, we can temporarily store 
the values into some sort of hashmap in the application (although we can 
potentially extend it to save the data into a JSON file).
 •	When the user attempts to access a shortened URL that exists, it will do a 
temporary redirect to the long URL.
 •	If a user attempts to access a shortened URL that does not exist, it should 
return a 404 error as the URL path does not exist, and the client should realize 
that (which, in this case, it should be the browser).
 •	There are essentially two URLs paths that we might want to code out:
 o  /add: The server application should accept the URL to be shortened. 
If successfully created, it should return status code 201 as well as the 
shortened URL that is generated by the application.
 o  /r/<shortened-url: All other URLs, which would be done via the GET 
HTTP verb. If the shortened URL does not exist—we would need to 
return an error 404 instead.
 o  For the same /r/<shortened-url, when we issue a DELETE request for it, 
it should remove it from the server application’s storage.
 There are many things that we will not be considering though while building this 
server application:
 •	There would be no user-related system as this would make this way too 
complex. A user system is actually a complex thing to add (albeit it is a 
standard functionality in many applications out there). A login system would 
consist of the following items—which is why we will not include them in 
this sample application:
 o Sign up
 o Login
 o Logout
 o  Delete user (especially with legal rules nowadays that require companies 
to forget users if they request the application/company to do so)
 o Forget password
 o  User activation (usually added to ensure the emails provided during 
sign up is legit)
 •	No quotas or throttling systems added—URL shortener services are usually 
open for abuse (due to how people can game it for malicious use, and so 
on). However, adding throttling is not too trivial; the right libraries will be 
added, and the right configuration will need to be added for it.
 •	We would not be collecting any analytics metrics of redirects happening for 
particular shortened URLs.
 The list of things that we are currently ignoring here is numerous, but with that in 
mind, we can build a more minimalistic server application that would showcase on 
how one can build such server applications without too much hassle.
